Add JwtRealmSettings (#81680)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/settings/security-settings.asciidoc

// tag::jwt-claim-pattern-principal-tag[]
`claim_patterns.principal` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
A Java regular expression that is matched against the JWT claim specified
by `claims.principal` before it is applied to the user's _principal_ property.
The attribute value must match the pattern and the value of the first
_capturing group_ is used as the principal. For example, `^([^@]+)@example\\.com$`
matches email addresses from the "example.com" domain and uses the local-part as
the principal.
// end::jwt-claim-pattern-principal-tag[]

// tag::jwt-claim-pattern-groups-tag[]
`claim_patterns.groups` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
As per `claim_patterns.principal`, but for the _group_ property.
// end::jwt-claim-pattern-groups-tag[]

// tag::jwt-populate-user-metadata-tag[]
`populate_user_metadata` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies whether to populate the {es} user's metadata with the values that are
provided by the JWT claims. Defaults to `true`.
// end::jwt-populate-user-metadata-tag[]

// tag::jwt-client-authentication-type-tag[]
`client_authentication.type` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Specifies whether to use `sharedsecret`, `ssl`, or `none` authentication

Author: I will remove the ssl option.

(<<secure-settings,Secure>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/common-defs.asciidoc[tag=ssl-secure-key-passphrase]
+
You cannot use this setting and `ssl.key_passphrase` at the same time.

// tag::jwt-ssl-certificate-tag[]
`ssl.certificate` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/common-defs.asciidoc[tag=ssl-certificate]
// end::jwt-ssl-certificate-tag[]

// tag::jwt-ssl-certificate-authorities-tag[]
`ssl.certificate_authorities` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/common-defs.asciidoc[tag=ssl-certificate-authorities]
// end::jwt-ssl-certificate-authorities-tag[]

// tag::jwt-ssl-keystore-path-tag[]
`ssl.keystore.path` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/common-defs.asciidoc[tag=ssl-keystore-path]
// end::jwt-ssl-keystore-path-tag[]

// tag::jwt-ssl-keystore-type-tag[]
`ssl.keystore.type` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/common-defs.asciidoc[tag=ssl-keystore-type-pkcs12]
// end::jwt-ssl-keystore-type-tag[]

// tag::jwt-ssl-keystore-password-tag[]
`ssl.keystore.password` {ess-icon}::

> (<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

Author: I remove the legacy password option from code. I will remove it from the doc next.

// tag::jwt-allowed-clock-skew-tag[]
`allowed_clock_skew` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
The maximum allowed clock skew to be taken into consideration when validating
id tokens with regards to their creation and expiration times.
// end::jwt-allowed-clock-skew-tag[]

// tag::jwt-jwkset-path-tag[]
`jwkset_path` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
The path or URL to a JSON Web Key Set with the key material that the JWT
Issuer uses for signing tokens and claims responses.
If a path is provided, then it is resolved relative to the {es} config
directory.
If a URL is provided, then it must be either a `file` URL or a `https` URL.
{es} automatically caches the retrieved JWK set to avoid unnecessary HTTP
requests but will attempt to refresh the JWK upon signature verification
failure, as this might indicate that the JWT Provider has
rotated the signing keys.
+
File-based resources are polled at a frequency determined by the global {es}
`resource.reload.interval.high` setting, which defaults to 5 seconds.
// end::jwt-jwkset-path-tag[]

// tag::jwt-allowed-audiences-tag[]
`allowed_audiences` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> A list of verifiable Identifiers for your JWT client applications.
> 
> The OAuth 2.0 Client Identifier that was assigned to the
> OpenID Connect Relying Party application during registration
> at the OpenID Connect Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of allowed JWT audiences that {es} shoud verify.

{es} will only consume JWTs that were intended for one of
these audiences ( as denoted by the `aud` claim in the JWT )
```

We need to decouple this from RP client id, because while it might be this in many use cases, in the case of bespoke JWTs, there is no client_id and elasticsearch is the audience so we need to be a bit more generic here.

by `claims.principal` before it is applied to the user's _principal_ property.
The attribute value must match the pattern and the value of the first
_capturing group_ is used as the principal. For example, `^([^@]+)@example\\.com$`
matches email addresses from the "example.com" domain and uses the local-part as
the principal.
// end::jwt-claim-pattern-principal-tag[]

// tag::jwt-claim-pattern-groups-tag[]
`claim_patterns.groups` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
As per `claim_patterns.principal`, but for the _group_ property.
// end::jwt-claim-pattern-groups-tag[]

// tag::jwt-populate-user-metadata-tag[]
`populate_user_metadata` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies whether to populate the {es} user's metadata with the values that are
provided by the JWT claims. Defaults to `true`.
// end::jwt-populate-user-metadata-tag[]

// tag::jwt-client-authentication-type-tag[]
`client_authentication.type` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies whether to use `sharedsecret`, `ssl`, or `none` authentication
to incoming client requests. Defaults to `sharedsecret`.
// end::jwt-client-authentication-type-tag[]

> 

Author: Client authentication settings are missing. They can be added later.

Author: They will be added in a separate PR.

`authorization_realms`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
The names of the realms that should be consulted for delegated authorization.
If this setting is used, then the JWT realm does not perform role
mapping and instead loads the user from the listed realms.
See <<authorization_realms>>.

`cache.ttl`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Specifies the time-to-live for cached user entries. A user and a hash of its

Author: We can iterate in a future PR when implementing the cache.

credentials are cached for this period of time. Use the
standard {es} <<time-units,time units>>).
Defaults to `20m`.

`cache.max_users`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies the maximum number of user entries that the cache can contain.
Defaults to `100000`.

// tag::jwt-http-connect-timeout-tag[]
`http.connect_timeout` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Controls the behavior of the http client used for back-channel communication to
> the JWT Issuer endpoints. Specifies the timeout until a connection
>  is established. A value of zero means the timeout is not used. Defaults to `5s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controls the behavior of the http client used for fetching the JSON Web Key Set
from remote a URL. A value of zero means the timeout is not used. Defaults to `5s`.
```

Reviewer: In OpenID Connect our realm talks to the OP in various endpoints so that wording made sense there. Here we will only reach out for the jwkset url so we can be specific

// end::jwt-http-connect-timeout-tag[]

// tag::jwt-http-read-timeout-tag[]
`http.connection_read_timeout` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Controls the behavior of the http client used for back-channel communication to
> the JWT Issuer endpoints. Specifies the timeout used when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controls the behavior of the http client used for fetching the JSON Web Key Set
from remote a URL. Specifies the timeout used when
```

requesting a connection from the connection manager. Defaults to `5s`
// end::jwt-http-read-timeout-tag[]

// tag::jwt-http-socket-timeout[]
`http.socket_timeout` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Controls the behavior of the http client used for back-channel communication to
> the JWT Issuer endpoints. Specifies the socket timeout (SO_TIMEOUT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controls the behavior of the http client used for fetching the JSON Web Key Set
from remote a URL. Specifies the socket timeout (SO_TIMEOUT)
```

in milliseconds, which is the timeout for waiting for data or, put differently,
a maximum period inactivity between two consecutive data packets). Defaults to
`5s`.
// end::jwt-http-socket-timeout[]

// tag::jwt-http-max-connections-tag[]
`http.max_connections` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)

> Controls the behavior of the http client used for back-channel communication to
> the JWT Issuer endpoints. Specifies the maximum number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controls the behavior of the http client used for fetching the JSON Web Key Set
from remote a URL. Specifies the maximum number of
```

connections allowed across all endpoints.
// end::jwt-http-max-connections-tag[]

// tag::jwt-http-max-endpoint-connections-tag[]
`http.max_endpoint_connections` {ess-icon}::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Controls the behavior of the http client used for back-channel communication to

> the JWT Issuer endpoints. Specifies the maximum number of

Reviewer: Controls the behavior of the http client used for fetching the JSON Web Key Set
from remote a URL. Specifies the maximum number of
```

connections allowed per endpoint.
// end::jwt-http-max-endpoint-connections-tag[]

`http.proxy.scheme`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies the protocol to use to connect to the proxy server that will be
used by the http client for all back-channel communication to the JWT Issuer
endpoints. Defaults to `http`. Allowed values are `http` or `https`.

`http.proxy.host`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies the address of the proxy server that will be used by the internal
http client for all back-channel communication to the JWT Issuer
endpoints. This includes requests to fetch the JSON Web Key Set from the
JWT Issuer if `jwkset_path` is set as a URL.

`http.proxy.port`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>)
Specifies the port of the proxy server that will be used by the http
client for all backchannel communication to the JWT Provider

> endpoints. Defaults to `80`.

Reviewer: we won't support a proxy to start with. When we add support, we will add the settings too

[discrete]
[[ref-jwt-ssl-settings]]
===== JWT realm SSL settings
// tag::jwt-ssl-description-tag[]

> The following settings can be used to configure SSL for all outgoing http connections

Reviewer: Can we be more specific here about what the http connections are ( fetching jwkset )  ?
